So we're gonna take a little
bit of a step back here.
So far we've talked about variables,
simple function argument types,
and return types.
We've talked about objects,
arrays, and tuples.
And now I want us to step back and
consider different kinds of type systems.
And more specifically,
how do we categorize different
kinds of types systems?
Because we hear a lot of words
to describe these things, right?
Static, dynamic, duck typing,
some people use this term strong types.
What does it all mean?
And what is the way to describe
what we're seeing type scripts do?
So first, we need to understand,
what is type checking?
Type checking has to do with answering
a question about type equivalence.
As in, when we're using a foo,
a function here,
is the value we're passing in,
equivalent to what the function
is designed to accept?
It's a comparison, right?
Does this align with the constraints
of where I'm trying to use this value?
That is type compatibility or
type equivalence.
That's the question that we're evaluating
when we analyze this code, and
think about whether we should
have an error on this line here.
This happens when you pass
a value into a function.
This happens when you assign things.
So in this case, let's say x and
y are both variables.
And here we'd be wondering
is the value that y holds
type-equivalent to what x wants to hold?
And if so, this assignment may
proceed without objection.
But if x wants a number and
y hold the string, problem.
Type equivalence checks
happen on return types,
especially when you have this
explicit return type here.
Is my strings an array of strings?
That's what we said we would return.
Are we returning it?
Is the value I'm returning
equivalent to the type this function
says it's going to return?
So this is the same question,
it's just sort of asked in several places.
You can check this footnote out if you
wanna see another example that's weird.
But this is most of what
you wanna think about.
So, with that question in mind,
let's think about different
kinds of type systems and
how they answer this question.
So the first way to categorize different
types systems is static versus dynamic.
Static type systems have you
write types in your code.
And that's TypeScript is
one of these things, right?
Java, c++, C sharp, any of these
things are static type systems.
It could be argued that Python with
type hints also kind of fits into
this category, but
there's not much enforcement there.
So it'd be a hard thing to defend.
But TypeScript is definitely
a static type system.
Types are in your code and
they're evaluated as part of the belt.
Dynamic type systems perform their
type equivalence check at runtime.
So, this includes a bunch of
languages here, where typically,
you're just gonna see variable
declarations that just say,
I have a variable name and
its value is Mike.
And there are no types there, right?
There's no support really for
adding types in a formalized way.
We can also think about type system
as either nominal or structural.
This is a weird one, because
TypeScript is a structural type system.
But just about every other thing you
see in the programming language world,
they are nominal type systems.
So nominal type systems
is all about a name.
That's what nominal means.
So here's a sample of Java code.
And you can see here, similar to
TypeScript, we have some properties,
they are associated with some types.
We have a class that
contains these properties.
And we have a function here, print car and
it takes a car as an argument.
The type equivalence check
that is evaluated down here,
it's really did myCar come out
of a constructor called Car?
Is your class named Car?
That's a nominal type system.
Everything is about what
is the name of your class?
And the reason that this wouldn't work so
well in the JavaScript world
is there's a whole lot of code out there
that's not written with classes like this.
We pass objects with properties
around all the time.
And if we had to convert
everything to classes,
that would be a very substantial change
to our code bases that if required as
part of migrating to TypeScript,
it would just be a lot of extra work.
So a nominal type system won't
really fit existing JavaScript code,
structural type systems
just care about shape.
So here we have similar other classes
here, we can even have Car and
Truck which kind of share some properties.
We've got make model and year,
they exist both on Car and Truck.
And we've even got an object here,
it's not an instance of a class,
it has make, model, and year.
Turns out,
everything's gonna work with printCar.
All printCar cares about here is
do you have make, model, and year?
It doesn't matter if you're an instance of
a class, or you're just a regular object,
or maybe you're some weird function
with some properties hanging off of it.
I mean, that's a class, right?
But [LAUGH] it'll work with any of them.
All it cares about is look, I intend
to reach into whatever you give me and
I'm gonna use make, I'm gonna use a model,
I'm gonna use year.
I don't care about the other stuff
going on around it, here's what I need.
That's a structural type system.
And these words here, Car and Truck,
they're just around for our convenience.
They're around so that we as code authors
can make sense of what our code is doing.
They play no role in any sort of
type-equivalents checking.
You could make something that might
simulate what's happening in Java.
You'd have to say give me a value
that has a constructor property,
which is a function that returns cars.
Okay, you've defined the structure of
something that is a factory of cars and
that is the car class.
Okay, you could do that but
normal TypeScript code will not, right?
Normal TypeScript code,
it's just do you have what I need?
The properties and
the types those properties can hold.
If so, we're good to go.
Duck typing.
We hear about duck typing.
I mean, people describe JavaScript as
a duck typed programming language.
And this gets its name from the duck test,
which means if it looks like a duck,
swims like a duck, quacks like a duck,
it's probably a duck.
And this is kind of another
way of saying dynamic typing,
where we kinda attempt to go ahead and
use something, and if it works out,
okay, and if it doesn't,
we'll throw an error at runtime.
That's how JavaScript works.
You can think of it as having
similarities to structural typing.
In that, you just care about
having what you need, right?
You don't care about who created it.
It's similar to structural typing in
that way, but it's also dynamic typing,
in that there is no type information
at build time to evaluate.
So all of these errors
are popping up at runtime.
Does that make sense?
I mean, it might be a little bit of
a stretch to say it's similar to
structural typing.
But what they do have in common
is they have no concern for
whether you came out of a class or
whether you're an object literal.
As long as you have what is needed
in order to carry out the operation,
we'll try to do that.
But structural typing usually goes
with static types as well, right,
where you have that type information.
Okay, finally,
we have strong versus weak types.
These terms don't really
have good definitions.
There's no such thing I'm aware
of that's called strong typing.
When people use the word strong typing,
I think they usually mean,
static types, types that are in your code.
And when they say weak types,
I think they mean dynamic types.
But there is no consensus around
a definition for any of these terms.
So you won't hear me use strong types
in this course, except right now?
Static and dynamic, right, are the types
in the code, or do we attempt
to sort of YOLO it and figure out if
things are gonna work at runtime?